# BIOMD0000000522: MODEL1403110000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000522.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000522.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Muraro2014 - Vascular patterning in Arabidopsis roots

Using a multicellular model, maintanence of vascular patterning in Arabidopsis
roots has been studied. The model that is provided here is the single-cell
version of the model. The two-cell and multicellular models described in the
paper can be downloaded as python scripts (follow the curation tab to get
these files).

This model is described in the article:

[Integration of hormonal signaling networks and mobile microRNAs is required
for vascular patterning in Arabidopsis
roots.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/24381155)

Muraro D, Mellor N, Pound MP, Help H, Lucas M, Chopard J, Byrne HM, Godin C,
Hodgman TC, King JR, Pridmore TP, Helariutta Y, Bennett MJ, Bishopp A.

Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 14;111(2):857-62.

Abstract:

As multicellular organisms grow, positional information is continually needed
to regulate the pattern in which cells are arranged. In the Arabidopsis root,
most cell types are organized in a radially symmetric pattern; however, a
symmetry-breaking event generates bisymmetric auxin and cytokinin signaling
domains in the stele. Bidirectional cross-talk between the stele and the
surrounding tissues involving a mobile transcription factor, SHORT ROOT (SHR),
and mobile microRNA species also determines vascular pattern, but it is
currently unclear how these signals integrate. We use a multicellular model to
determine a minimal set of components necessary for maintaining a stable
vascular pattern. Simulations perturbing the signaling network show that, in
addition to the mutually inhibitory interaction between auxin and cytokinin,
signaling through SHR, microRNA165/6, and PHABULOSA is required to maintain a
stable bisymmetric pattern. We have verified this prediction by observing loss
of bisymmetry in shr mutants. The model reveals the importance of several
features of the network, namely the mutual degradation of microRNA165/6 and
PHABULOSA and the existence of an additional negative regulator of cytokinin
signaling. These components form a plausible mechanism capable of patterning
vascular tissues in the absence of positional inputs provided by the transport
of hormones from the shoot.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000522](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000522) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


